To view and edit our code we need an editor and I recommend using Visual Studio code which is a free
to use very powerful idea which is great for JavaScript development which is what we're doing here at
the end.
You can get it from code to visual studio dot com.
There you find versions for Mac Windows and Linux simply download the one for your operating system
and walk through the installer disk gives you once you did install it open up visual pseudocode and
in there open your project by going to file open and then simply pick your project.
Mike has our end first app click open here and this will now open up the project here in Visual Studio
code now my virtual city code looks the way it does look here because I have a special theme enabled
which you can change under preferences color theme and there I'm using the dark plus theme.
So if you want to have the same look you can use that.
And I also installed a special extension which you can do under view extensions there.
I got the material icon the theme installed this one here which is totally optional but you can install
it from there as well.
And they're often go back to the you explorer to see your files again.
So did you get the same file icons as I have here.
Again it's totally optional and with that out of the way this is our ReACT native app managed by Expo.
Now let me quickly walk you through what we have here and then show you what you can change in code
to change something in your app.
Now we have a couple of folders and files here.
The DOT Expo folder just hold some configuration for Excel.
You don't need to touch this the assets folder Dad hold some images in this case like the icon of your
app and the splash screen image and we'll dive into how you can customize this towards the end of the
course and we'll use our assets like images in general for all this course of course the node modules
folder holds all the dependencies of this project that's for example react and react native but all
the dependencies off dependencies and this folder is managed automatically for you.
So you don't need to touched us and you shouldn't touch it indeed get ignore is a file that helps us
with get which is a source code management system where source code management tool and you don't need
to use it if you do you probably know what get ignored does it if you don't know what get us after this
lecture you'll find a brief introduction to it or some resources to help you get started with it but
you don't need to use get to work with rec native Watchmen conflict that's something you can ignore
as you see it's empty year it's a tool used behind the scenes by expo in the end and the capture has
fall Dennis to fall which holds the code that is responsible for rendering what we see here on the screen
we'll dive into this in a second app Jason hold some configuration for our ReACT native app powered
by Expo and we'll dive into this for all this course as well for now let's ignore it Babel config configure
is how the javascript code is optimized and compiled you can leave the default here as well and the
package does Jason File manages your dependencies there you see that you're using Expo but all to react
all the react Dom because Expo actually also supports building react apps for web but then also react
native here and while react native web because again Expo gives you the option of all the building Web
apps with the help of React Native it's not something we'll focus on in this course though.
So that's the setup we have here.
The important file for us at the moment is to capture us file because that's the end responsible for
getting something onto the screen.
Now the exact file content you're seeing here in your app jazz file could change over time though this
starting Project which gets generated automatically simply sometimes is changed.
That does of course not affect what I explain here or discourse that does not mean that anything is
outdated or anything like that.
It's just as different starting Project.
And if you want to follow along with exactly the same when I got you'll find it attached to can all
you step but of course you could also continue with viewers if it looks slightly different because as
I mentioned it's just a starting project.
You've got reorg native of course still works the same as I explain it here and they'll for you can
absolutely follow along with that and added your app jazz file just the way I edited it and in there
we see we do import react just as we would do it in a react web app.
We need to import react because here you can also see we're using J as X which is this special javascript
syntax that looks like age to.
But in the end is just JavaScript.
And in case you never saw it as definitely dive into our ReACT app or react tutorial first I do expect
that you know how react generally works.
We always have another import here and that's the react native import where we import style sheet text
and view from there.
Now these are these special components and features I was talking about earlier text and you are components
provided by react native that are compiled to native platform widgets and styles she does an extra feature
provided by React Native that helps you with styling.
Now then here we have a normal react component as we would build it in a react for web app to.
We are having a functional component here and with the help of React hoax we can work with functional
components only as you probably know and dysfunctional component return some J as ex code that is rendered
onto the screen.
And here we're using the view widget or The View component provided by React Native and the text component
and the view component is like a div.
It's a good wrapper also good for applying some styles for some containers and detects this then used
for while outputting some text which you put between its opening and closing tax.
And down here we have some styles to find React Native does not use CSA as but it use a styling syntax
that is well based on CSR s or follow a similar naming conventions but we'll dive deeper into how to
style your React Native apps throughout this course of course.
So with that let's change what we see on the screen and let's actually add a button here.
Now the good thing is we can import a button from React Native that's a number a core component provided
by React Native so we can add this import and then use a down there however we don't use it without
opening and closing tag.
But as a self closing element and then we can add a title prop here to set the text we see on the button
for example change text.
Now when we tap this button we might want to change this text here.
And for this we need to manage some state here because I want to change some data which should lead
to this component being re rendered and for this you need state.
Now prior to react 16 dot eight which is supported here though you would have to convert this to a class
based component to use state since react 16 to date.
We can use react hooks and in case you don't know what hooks are.
You should definitely dive into the basics of hooks attached you find resources that get you started
with that hooks are imported from react and here we need to use state hook which allows us to manage
state in a functional component.
With that we can use that hook by calling use state here and giving it a default value which could be
this text here.
Let's cut it from down there and added here as a string and then here we can use array to structuring
to get our output text and get a function to change or reset or overwrite this output text.
And that's just how to use state hook works.
It gives you an array with exactly two elements where the first element is your current state snapshot.
So even our starting state or their offer for subsequent re render cycles whatever we set our state
to.
And the second is a function that allows you to set your state to a new value in calling that function
will read render the entire component and output text will then refer to the latest new state.
So here between text I want to output output text and up on a press of the spot.
Now I want to change this.
So on the bottle we can deal for register on press which is basically the equivalent to on click which
you would have in the web.
Here it's on press and then we need to bind as to a function for example to an anonymous inline function
here with this syntax where we call set output text and we set this to the text changed.
So this will call this function here overwrite our state data for re rendered this component.
This will be updated in the next render cycle and therefore since we output output text down there.
This will change if we now save all of that.
The cool thing is your app which you should still have opened on your phone should have automatically
reloaded.
You don't need to restarted.
You don't need to scan this code here again just by changing the code and saving this file it should
automatically reload here and now if we now tap change text here you see the text changed and that's
your first react native app doing its job powered by Expo.
But again you can build and published it as a standalone app and will do that by the end of the course.
And therefore this is an amazing way of getting started and react native development can be as easy
as.
Now with dead let's finish up this first module before we then dive way deeper into React Native and
into writing react native code from the second course module on.